New article - US1888233-Printing-Overview (#1355)
dotnet/docs-desktop: dotnet-desktop-guide/net/winforms/printing/overview.md

---

> title: "PrintDialog Component Overview"
> ms.description: "Learn about print related settings in Windows-based applications."
> ms.date: "04/26/2022"
> f1_keywords:
>   - "PrintDialog"
> helpviewer_keywords:
>   - "Print dialog box [Windows Forms], displaying"
>   - "PrintDialog component [Windows Forms], about PrintDialog component"
> dev_langs:
>   - "csharp"
>   - "vb"
> ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
> ---
> 
> # PrintDialog Component Overview (Windows Forms .NET)

Reviewer: Minor fixes, casing + attribute name
```suggestion
title: "PrintDialog component overview"
description: "Learn about print related settings in with Windows Forms in .NET, like displaying the PrintDialog and working with print jobs."
ms.date: "04/26/2022"
f1_keywords:
  - "PrintDialog"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Print dialog box [Windows Forms], displaying"
  - "PrintDialog component [Windows Forms], about PrintDialog component"
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

# PrintDialog component overview (Windows Forms .NET)
```

Typically, you create a new instance of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component and set the properties that describe what to print using the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> and <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PageSettings> classes. Call to the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.Print%2A> method actually prints the document.

## Working with the component

Use the [PrintDialog.ShowDialog](xref:System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog.ShowDialog%2A) method to display the dialog at run time. This component has properties that relate to either a single print job (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> class) or the settings of an individual printer (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> class). One of the two, in turn, may be shared by multiple printers.

The show dialog box method helps you to add print dialog box to the form. The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component appears in the tray at the bottom of the Windows Forms Designer in Visual Studio.

> ## How to: capture user input from a PrintDialog at run time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to capture user input from a PrintDialog at run time
```

    :::code language="vb" source="snippets/overview/vb/Form1.vb" id="specify-the-material-to-be-printed":::
    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/overview/csharp/Form1.cs" id="specify-the-material-to-be-printed":::

    You may also want to write code for the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.BeginPrint> and <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.EndPrint> events. It will help to include an integer representing the total number of pages to print that is decremented as each page prints.

    > [!NOTE]
    > You can add a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component to your form to provide a clean and efficient user interface (UI) to your users. Setting the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog.Document%2A> property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component enables you to set properties related to the print document you're working with on your form. For more information about the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component, see [PrintDialog Component](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/controls/printdialog-component-windows-forms?view=netframeworkdesktop-4.8&preserve-view=true).

>      For more information about the specifics of Windows Forms print jobs, including how to create a print job programmatically, see <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs>.

Author: ok

 The following procedure requires that you've created a Windows-based application with a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component on it. The procedure given below is the standard way of enabling printing from a Windows-based application. For more information about printing from Windows Forms using the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component, see [How to: Create Standard Windows Forms Print Jobs](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/advanced/how-to-create-standard-windows-forms-print-jobs?view=netframeworkdesktop-4.8&preserve-view=true).

01. Set the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.DocumentName%2A> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component.

    ```vb
    PrintDocument1.DocumentName = "SamplePrintApp"
    ```

    ```csharp
    printDocument1.DocumentName = "SamplePrintApp";
    ```

01. Write code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.EndPrint> event.

>      In the following code example, a message box is displayed, indicating that the document has finished printing.

Reviewer: Indentation is slightly off here
```suggestion
    In the following code example, a message box is displayed, indicating that the document has finished printing.
```

    :::code language="vb" source="snippets/overview/vb/Form1.vb" id="message-box-indicating-document-has-finished-printing":::
    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/overview/csharp/Form1.cs" id="message-box-indicating-document-has-finished-printing":::

> 
>     (Visual C#) Place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.
> 
>     ```csharp
>     this.printDocument1.EndPrint += new System.Drawing.Printing.PrintEventHandler (this.printDocument1_EndPrint);
>     ```

Reviewer: Don't forget to remove this
```suggestion
```

Author: When converted project to .NET 6.0, these lines are needed in the code. Adding this as inline code as it is just a single line.

01. Add a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component to your form.

01. Write code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event.

     You'll have to code your own printing logic. Additionally, you'll have to specify the material to be printed.

     As a material to print, in the following code example, a sample graphic in the shape of a red rectangle is created in the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler.

    ```vb
    Private Sub PrintDocument1_PrintPage(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs) Handles PrintDocument1.PrintPage
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red, New Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500))
    End Sub
    ```

    ```csharp
    private void printDocument1_PrintPage(object sender,
    System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs e)
    {
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red,
         new Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500));
    }
    ```

>     (Visual C#) Place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    (Visual C#) Place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.
```

---
title: "PrintDialog Component Overview"
ms.description: "Learn about print related settings in Windows-based applications."
ms.date: "04/18/2022"
f1_keywords:
  - "PrintDialog"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Print dialog box [Windows Forms], displaying"
  - "PrintDialog component [Windows Forms], about PrintDialog component"
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

# PrintDialog Component Overview (Windows Forms .NET)

> Printing in Windows Forms consists primarily of using the [PrintDocument](../../../framework/winforms/controls/printdocument-component-windows-forms.md) component to enable the user to print. The [PrintPreviewDialog](../../../framework/winforms/controls/printpreviewdialog-control-windows-forms.md) control, [PrintDialog](../../../framework/winforms/controls/printdialog-component-windows-forms.md) and [PageSetupDialog](../../../framework/winforms/controls/pagesetupdialog-component-windows-forms.md) components provide a familiar graphical interface to Windows operating system users.

Author: Ok

  
Typically, you create a new instance of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component and set the properties that describe what to print using the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> and <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PageSettings> classes. Call to the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.Print%2A> method actually prints the document.

The Windows Forms [PrintDialog](../../../framework/winforms/controls/printdialog-component-windows-forms.md) component is a pre-configured dialog box used to select a printer, choose the pages to print, and determine other print-related settings in Windows-based applications. It's a simple solution for printer and print-related settings instead of configuring your own dialog box. You can enable users to print many parts of their documents: print all, print a selected page range, or print a selection. By relying on standard Windows dialog boxes, you create applications whose basic functionality is immediately familiar to users. The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component inherits from the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog> class.

> ## Working with the Component

Author: Changed it for level 2 and 3 headings.

Use the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog.ShowDialog%2A> method to display the dialog at run time. This component has properties that relate to either a single print job (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> class) or the settings of an individual printer (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> class). One of the two, in turn, may be shared by multiple printers.

 The show dialog box method helps you to add print dialog box to the form. The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component appears in the tray at the bottom of the Windows Forms Designer in Visual Studio.

## How to: Capture User Input from a PrintDialog at Run Time

> You can set options related to printing at design time. Sometimes you may want to change these options at run time, most likely because of choices made by the user. You can capture user input for printing a document using the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> components.  
>   
> ### To change print options programmatically  

Reviewer: Considering there isn't any other ### heading in this section, this is useless. Convert it into the intro to the procedure steps. Also, unless it's also going to demonstrate doing something non-programmatically, we can assume the reader is always doing something programmatically, so we can remove that word. I've actually just rewritten the heading as the intro because the wording of the heading doesn't even match the intent of the code.

```suggestion
You can set options related to printing at design time. Sometimes you may want to change these options at run time, most likely because of choices made by the user. You can capture user input for printing a document using the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> components. The following steps demonstrate displaying the print dialog for a document:
```

  
01. Add a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component to your form.  
  
01. Set the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog.Document%2A> property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> to the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> added to the form.  
  
    ```vb  
    PrintDialog1.Document = PrintDocument1  
    ```  
  
    ```csharp  
    printDialog1.Document = PrintDocument1;  
    ```  
  
01. Display the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component by using the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog.ShowDialog%2A> method.  
  
    ```vb  
    PrintDialog1.ShowDialog()  
    ```  
  
    ```csharp  
    printDialog1.ShowDialog();  

>     ```  

Reviewer: Just to note: These are all one line code examples, I wouldn't worry about converting them to snippets.

Author: ok

  
01. The user's printing choices from the dialog will be copied to the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> property of the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component.  

> ## How to: Create Standard Windows Forms Print Jobs

Reviewer: Fix the casing on these headers and simplify when you can. There are a few more to change in the article
```suggestion
## How to create a print job
```

Author: ok

The foundation of printing in Windows Forms is the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component—more specifically, the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event. By writing code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event, you can specify what to print and how to print it.  
  

> ### To create a print job  

Reviewer: again, this is another useless ### header

01. Write code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event.  
  
     You'll have to code your own printing logic. Additionally, you'll have to specify the material to be printed.  
  
     As a material to print, in the following code example, a sample graphic in the shape of a red rectangle is created in the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler.  
  
    ```vb  
    Private Sub PrintDocument1_PrintPage(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs) Handles PrintDocument1.PrintPage  
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red, New Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500))  
    End Sub  
    ```  
  
    ```csharp  
    private void printDocument1_PrintPage(object sender,
    System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs e)  
    {  
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red,
         new Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500));  
    }  
    ```  
  
     (Visual C#) Place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.  
  
    ```csharp  
    this.printDocument1.PrintPage += new  
       System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventHandler  
       (this.printDocument1_PrintPage);  

>     ```  

Reviewer: This odd double snippet to demonstrate one thing causes issues when someone has the other language selected when browsing the article. This is where you could use multiple ranges to present a single code snippet. The range would include a code comment that handled the text above

The range would be like `:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/...file..." range="47-67,100-103":::`

```csharp
// This code would be in the constructor or set via the designer
this.printDocument1.PrintPage += new  
       System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventHandler(this.printDocument1_PrintPage);  

// Event handler
private void printDocument1_PrintPage(object sender, System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs e)  
{  
    e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red, new Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500));  
}  
```

Author: Got it. But source of this document does not have code snippets, so adding inline code block. The above-mentioned style is used for second article.

Reviewer: @rachana-satao Correct, so a new snippets project would have to be created and these snippets migrated. Do you think you can do this? If not, I can file an issue for myself to track and I'll do the migrations at a later date.

Author: Yes, I am done with the csharp code. Sending you the sample project by email.

---
title: "PrintDialog Component Overview"
ms.description: "Learn about print related settings in Windows-based applications."

> ms.date: "04/13/2022"

Reviewer: This needs to have the code language metadata added to it so that the code switcher appears in the article
```suggestion
ms.date: "04/13/2022"
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
```

Author: done

f1_keywords:
  - "PrintDialog"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "Print dialog box [Windows Forms], displaying"
  - "PrintDialog component [Windows Forms], about PrintDialog component"
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

> # PrintDialog Component Overview (Windows Forms)

Reviewer: First header should have .NET in it to distinguish it from the other docsets
```suggestion
# PrintDialog Component Overview (Windows Forms .NET)
```

Author: done

## Working with the Component

Use the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog.ShowDialog%2A> method to display the dialog box at run time. This component has properties that relate to either a single print job (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> class) or the settings of an individual printer (<xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrinterSettings> class). Either of these, in turn, may be shared by multiple printers.

When it is added to a form, the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> component appears in the tray at the bottom of the Windows Forms Designer in Visual Studio.

## How to: Capture User Input from a PrintDialog at Run Time

While you can set options related to printing at design time, you will sometimes want to change these options at run time, most likely because of choices made by the user. You can capture user input for printing a document using the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> components.  
  
### To change print options programmatically  
  

> 1. Add a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component to your form.  

Reviewer: It's easier to make sure that child content aligns correctly in markdown if the items start with `01. ` I would convert them all to that format.
```suggestion
01. Add a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> and a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component to your form.  
```

Author: ok. done.

  
1. Set the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog.Document%2A> property of the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PrintDialog> to the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> added to the form.  
  
    ```vb  
    PrintDialog1.Document = PrintDocument1  
    ```  
  
    ```csharp  
    printDialog1.Document = PrintDocument1;  
    ```  
  
    ```cpp  
    printDialog1->Document = PrintDocument1;  

>     ```  

Author: ok. Deleted all CPP code examples

  
### To create a print job  
  
1. Add a <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument> component to your form.  
  
2. Write code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event.  
  
     You will have to code your own printing logic. Additionally, you will have to specify the material to be printed.  
  
     In the following code example, a sample graphic in the shape of a red rectangle is created in the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler to act as material to be printed.  
  
    ```vb  
    Private Sub PrintDocument1_PrintPage(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs) Handles PrintDocument1.PrintPage  
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red, New Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500))  
    End Sub  
    ```  
  
    ```csharp  
    private void printDocument1_PrintPage(object sender,
    System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventArgs e)  
    {  
       e.Graphics.FillRectangle(Brushes.Red,
         new Rectangle(500, 500, 500, 500));  
    }  

>     ```  

Author: working on it. I will get back to you on this.

01. Write code to handle the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event.

You'll have to code your own printing logic. Additionally, you'll have to specify the material to be printed.
    You'll have to code your own printing logic. Additionally, you'll have to specify the material to be printed.

As a material to print, in the following code example, a sample graphic in the shape of a red rectangle is created in the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler.
    As a material to print, in the following code example, a sample graphic in the shape of a red rectangle is created in the <xref:System.Drawing.Printing.PrintDocument.PrintPage> event handler.

  :::code language="vb" source="snippets/overview/vb/Form1.vb" id="specify_the_material_to_be_printed":::
    :::code language="vb" source="snippets/overview/vb/Form1.vb" id="specify_the_material_to_be_printed":::

>   :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/overview/csharp/Form1.cs" id="specify_the_material_to_be_printed":::

Reviewer: Aligned the items to be under the 01.

For Visual C#, place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.

  ```csharp
  this.printDocument1.PrintPage += new System.Drawing.Printing.PrintPageEventHandler (this.printDocument1_PrintPage);  

>   ```

Reviewer: Deleted the old event handler note

  
    :::code language="csharp" source="snippets/overview/csharp/Form1.cs" id="message_box_indicating_document_has_finished_printing":::

    For Visual C#, place the following code in the form's constructor to register the event handler.

    ```csharp
    this.printDocument1.EndPrint += new System.Drawing.Printing.PrintEventHandler (this.printDocument1_EndPrint);  
    ```

> 

Reviewer: Deleted the old event handler note
